
# Objects

In structured programming a problem is approached by dividing it into functions. In object oriented programming the problem is divided into objects.
There are some examples that can be treated as objects:
- Employees in a payroll processing system
- Data structures like linked list, stacks , queues etc

# Classes

A class serves as a blueprint or a plan or a template. It specifies what data and what functions will be included in objects of that type.

# Encapsulation
The packaging of data values and functions within an object is referred to as encapsulation. For example suppose we define a user defined type(class) called **Box** and build objects **b1** and **b2** from this class. Then these objects may encapsulate data members like length, breadth and height of the box and member functions calcVolume(),calcSurface() and displayDimensions().


# Inheritance
New classes can be built on top of the old ones. The new class referred to as a **derived class** , can inherit the data and functions of the original	or the **base class**. The new class can add its own data elements and functions in addition to those it inherits from its base class. 


# Polymorphism
The word polymorphism means having many forms. In simple words
we can define polymorphism as the ability of a message to be displayed in more than one form. The real life example of polymorsphism, a person at the same time is afather, a husband , an employee. So the same persons posses different behaviour in different situations. This is called polymorphism.

Two type of polymorphism:
1. Compile time polymorphism
2. Runtime polymorphism




